reference, toc: add a list of pushdown operators (#1579)
pingcap/docs: dev/reference/sql/functions-and-operators/expressions-pushed-down.md

---

> title: List of Operators for Pushdown

Reviewer: ditto

summary: This document introduces a list of operators that can be pushed down to TiKV, the related operations of which are also provided.
category: reference
---

> # List of Operators for Pushdown

Reviewer: ditto

> When TiDB reads data from TiKV, TiDB tries to push down some expressions to TiKV to be processed thus reducing the amount of data transferred and the computational pressure on a single TiDB node. This document introduces operators that TiDB supports for pushdown and how to blacklist specific operators.

Reviewer 2: Can the `pushdown` be used as a noun？
This document introduces which TiDB operators can be pushed down to TiKV, and how to disable this function by putting specific operators into a blacklist.

Author: > Can the `pushdown` be used as a noun？
> This document introduces which TiDB operators can be pushed down to TiKV, and how to disable this function by putting specific operators into a blacklist.

Thanks for your sharp eyes! I have done a little search actually, and to answer your question, yes, `pushdown` can be used as a noun, but with a totally different meaning. However, in [one of the blogs that we have posted](https://pingcap.com/blog/adding-built-in-functions-to-tikv/), we used expressions like "select a function for pushdown", so it is justifiable to use `pushdown` here. Similarily, "pushdown" can also be used as an adjective.
Also, apologies for my late follow-up.

> ## List of operators for pushdown

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Supported pushdown expressions
```

> | Type | Operators |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Expression Type | Operations |
```

| :-------------- | :------------------------------------- |
| [Logical Functions](/dev/reference/sql/functions-and-operators/operators.md#logical-operators) | AND (&&), OR (&#124;&#124;), NOT (!) |

> | [Comparison Functions](/dev/reference/sql/functions-and-operators/operators.md#comparison-functions-and-operators) | <, <=, =, != (<>), >, >=, [`<=>`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/comparison-operators.html#operator_equal-to), [`IN()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/comparison-operators.html#function_in), IS NULL, LIKE, IS TRUE, IS FALSE, [`COALESCE()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/comparison-operators.html#function_coalesce) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [Comparison operations](/dev/reference/sql/functions-and-operators/operators.md#comparison-functions-and-operators) | <, <=, =, != (<>), >, >=, [`<=>`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/comparison-operators.html#operator_equal-to), [`IN()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/comparison-operators.html#function_in), IS NULL, LIKE, IS TRUE, IS FALSE, [`COALESCE()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/comparison-operators.html#function_coalesce) |
```
please update the following rows accordingly.

| [JSON Functions](/dev/reference/sql/functions-and-operators/json-functions.md) | [JSON_TYPE(json_val)][json_type],<br> [JSON_EXTRACT(json_doc, path[, path] ...)][json_extract],<br> [JSON_UNQUOTE(json_val)][json_unquote],<br> [JSON_OBJECT(key, val[, key, val] ...)][json_object],<br> [JSON_ARRAY([val[, val] ...])][json_array],<br> [JSON_MERGE(json_doc, json_doc[, json_doc] ...)][json_merge],<br> [JSON_SET(json_doc, path, val[, path, val] ...)][json_set],<br> [JSON_INSERT(json_doc, path, val[, path, val] ...)][json_insert],<br> [JSON_REPLACE(json_doc, path, val[, path, val] ...)][json_replace],<br> [JSON_REMOVE(json_doc, path[, path] ...)][json_remove] |
| [Date and Time Functions](/dev/reference/sql/functions-and-operators/date-and-time-functions.md) | [`DATE_FORMAT()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/date-and-time-functions.html#function_date-format)  |

> ## Blacklist specific operators

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Blacklist specific expressions
```

> If unexpected behavior occurs in the calculation of the function due to pushdown operators, you can quickly restore it by blacklisting specific operators. Specifically, you can prohibit operators from being pushing down by putting it on the blacklist `mysql.expr_pushdown_blacklist`.

Reviewer 2: If unexpected behavior occurs during the calculation of functions due to pushed down operators, you can quickly restore the execution by blacklisting specific operators. Specifically, you can prohibit specific operators from being pushed down by putting it into the blacklist ....

> If unexpected behavior occurs during the calculation of functions due to pushed down operators, you can quickly restore the execution by blacklisting specific operators. Specifically, you can prohibit operators from being pushed down by adding them to the blacklist `mysql.expr_pushdown_blacklist`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If unexpected behavior occurs during the calculation of a function caused by its pushdown, you can quickly restore the application by blacklisting that function. Specifically, you can prohibit an expression from being pushed down by adding it to the `mysql.expr_pushdown_blacklist` blacklist.
```

### Add to the blacklist

> To add one or more operators to the blacklist, perform the following steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add one or more functions or operators to the blacklist, perform the following steps:
```

> 1. Insert the corresponding operator name in `mysql.expr_pushdown_blacklist`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Insert the function or operator name to `mysql.expr_pushdown_blacklist`.
```

> 2. Execute `admin reload expr_pushdown_blacklist;` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Execute the `admin reload expr_pushdown_blacklist;` command.
```

### Remove from the blacklist

> To remove one or more operators from the blacklist, perform the following steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To remove one or more functions or operators from the blacklist, perform the following steps:
```

> 1. Delete the corresponding operator name in `mysql.expr_pushdown_blacklist`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Delete the function or operator name in `mysql.expr_pushdown_blacklist`.
```

> 2. Execute `admin reload expr_pushdown_blacklist;` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Execute the `admin reload expr_pushdown_blacklist;` command.
```

> ### Instance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Blacklist usage examples
```

> The following example demonstrates how to add `<` and `>` to the blacklist, then remove `>` from the blacklist.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example demonstrates how to add the `<` and `>` operators to the blacklist, then remove `>` from the blacklist.
```

> Whether the blacklist is effective can be observed from the results returned by `EXPLAIN` statement (See [how to understand `EXPLAIN` results](/dev/reference/performance/understanding-the-query-execution-plan.md)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can see whether the blacklist takes effect by checking the results returned by `EXPLAIN` statement (See [Understanding `EXPLAIN` results](/dev/reference/performance/understanding-the-query-execution-plan.md)).
```

3 rows in set (0.00 sec)

tidb> delete from mysql.expr_pushdown_blacklist where name = '>';
Query OK, 1 row affected (0.00 sec)

tidb> admin reload expr_pushdown_blacklist;
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.00 sec)

tidb> explain select * from t where a < 2 and a > 2;
+-----------------------+----------+------+------------------------------------------------------------+
| id                    | count    | task | operator info                                              |
+-----------------------+----------+------+------------------------------------------------------------+
| Selection_5           | 2666.67  | root | lt(test.t.a, 2)                                            |
| └─TableReader_8       | 3333.33  | root | data:Selection_7                                           |
|   └─Selection_7       | 3333.33  | cop  | gt(test.t.a, 2)                                            |
|     └─TableScan_6     | 10000.00 | cop  | table:t, range:[-inf,+inf], keep order:false, stats:pseudo |
+-----------------------+----------+------+------------------------------------------------------------+
4 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

> **Note:**
>

> > - `admin reload expr_pushdown_blacklist` only works for TiDB server that executes this SQL statement. To enable the blacklist in every TiDB server in the cluster, you need to execute the SQL statement on each TiDB server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - `admin reload expr_pushdown_blacklist` only takes effect on the TiDB server that executes this SQL statement. To make it apply to all TiDB servers, execute the SQL statement on each TiDB server.
```

> > - The blacklist feature of pushed down operators is supported in v3.0.0 or later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - The feature of blacklisting specific expressions is supported in TiDB 3.0.0 or later versions.
```

> > - Note that in v3.0.3 or earlier, some of the operators (such as ">", "+", "is null") are not supported to add to the blacklist. This means you have to use aliases (case-insensitive) instead, as shown in the following table:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - TiDB 3.0.3 or earlier versions does not support adding some of the operators (such as ">", "+", "is null") to the blacklist by using their original names. You need to use their aliases (case-insensitive) instead, as shown in the following table:
```

> >

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Move this table out of the note.
